Now, let's imagine that we were given a task, the task is to look through or, in this case, go through
a range of numbers, let's say, between one and a thousand.
And as we go through this range of a number, we need to find all numbers are a multiple of two or three
or 10 or so forth.
Let's start with multiple of three, which means that these numbers are divisible by three and that
the remainder is going to be zero if they're divisible by three, right?
So how do we go about doing that?
Well, from what do we know so far, we could use an if statement right?
We can say if one is divisible by three and the remainder is zero, then that number should be printed.
Next one and if else to is divisible by three and go so forth, right?
Or we can use a when expression.
Remember, in computing, really, we are trying to manipulate data and we have certain tools available
to us, one of which is we saw these conditions, which is branching and so forth.
But there's another one if we want to repeat certain task.
In this case, we are repeating this iteration process of going through certain range of numbers and
finding things.
OK.
So there is indeed such structure called a for loop.
So for a loop is one of the most powerful structures in your programs.
So how do we set up that?
Well, we say for that.
You can see our IDs going to help us.
If you enter, then you can see now inside of practices.
We can pass the expression inside there.
So what is that we want to to do?
For starters, we want to say something like this.
We want to say I n and we give the range.
If I say one dot dot with C three and then inside of this code block here I can say print.
I, for instance, OK, just a quick example here.
So what's going to happen here is that it's for a loop is going to go ahead and look at this range.
I'm going to say OK as I go through from between one three, I'm going to print that I c, which means
this is actually going to be the counter between one and three.
Let's run and see what's going to happen, right?
Says one two three.
Now, if I want it, I could say print l n to put all of them in a different line.
Go ahead and run.
And you can see one two three.
OK, very good.
So that is this simple for loop here.
So we have here the eye, which is in this case is the counter or the index in this case.
And then we have the range.
So as we go through this looping through goes through, it's going to go ahead and print the eye, which
in this case is the counter index as we go first time, the one second time to third time and so forth.
That's why we see between one two three there.
OK, very good.
Now onto our exercise.
First of all, we want to go through or loop through a range of numbers, say, between one and 1000,
so I can see just changes to 1000 like this.
OK.
So if I go ahead and run, we should go through one to one and 1000.
There we go very fast, depending on your computer speed.
This will be really fast or a little bit slow.
OK.
There we go.
So but next we done the first part take.
The next part is we need to check to see if the numbers as we loop through.
There are any numbers that are divisible by three or multiples of three divisible by three or multiples
of three.
Same thing.
What do we do?
Well, think about it.
We can put inside an if statement right and see if right I now, how do we check if something is divisible
by something?
Well, we use the modulo operator we saw earlier.
I can say then percentage sign.
I want to see if it's divisible by three or if it's multiple of three.
I can see three is equal to zero.
What I'm saying here is that each number as we go through is going to check OK, if that number is divisible
by three and we know it's divisible by three, when it's divisible by three.
If there no remainder.
So if remainder, once we divide it by three is zero, then that number is divisible by three.
OK.
So in this case, I can actually put in one line or I can put like this because it's just one statement
right after the if statement.
So that works.
I don't have to put in half a block code block their curly braces.
This works as well.
Or, like I said, it can simplify this.
Put this in one line like this.
So what I want to print well, I want to print a message that says, I this number that we're showing
at this point, this index is multiple of three.
It's going to run.
There we go.
So now we can see that indeed, this is working.
Three is the is indeed a multiple of three six.
It's multiple three, nine and so forth all the way to nine hundred ninety nine.
Right.
And if I want, I can say else just print something that says like this.
So for any other number that it's not multiple of three, we're just going to have three dashes like
that.
Let's see.
OK.
So 981 is not multiple of three.
Or actually, let's see this say print airline so that it doesn't pollute our structure there because
that it's very confusing.
OK.
There we go.
So for every dashes you see, so we have one and two, there are not three.
That's why they have Dash, Dash and then we have four and five have seven and eight.
So forth.
All right, so there you have it.
So this is very powerful, as you can see, because we can put any range here and we can use if statements
to control the flow of our program.
Right.
So at this point, you can start seeing the power that we have here right now.
This is the most simplistic way of showing for a loop.
And if statement together, they can start looking at other things you can do.
You can present check if that number is multiple three and or if that number is an odd number and go
from there.
Right.
So think of other cases that you can actually check with an if statement if you want, you can also
use a one that works totally fine as well.
OK.
I hope you're getting cited.
This is this is really cool.
It's really cool.
All right.
See you next time.